discusses his memoir I want to thank my
brain for remembering me then at nine
from Brown University a panel discussion
on the state of literature about books
continues Sunday at nine with an
interview with editor Jayne Garrett she
talks about some of the prize-winning
book she's edited during her career at
9:30 a reading by author Frank McCourt
and at 10:30 retired federal judge Leon
Higginbotham talks about his new book
shades of freedom about books
Saturday and Sunday nights here on
c-span - next the role of the CIA in the
post Cold War era
Robert White head of the center for
international policy discusses the issue
and his efforts at public accountability
for the agency the Women's National
Democratic Club hosted the event before
we start today's program just a couple
of announcements of up and coming
luncheons this Thursday we have Karen
Nussbaum who will talk about women labor
unions and campaign of 96 this is our
last speaker before the elections to
address the issues facing us in this
campaign and then I urge you all on
November 5th next Tuesday please put it
on your calendar take a friend go and
vote and the club will be closed for
food during the day because we will be
having our party that evening and as of
now we have over a hundred people signed
up to come we will be learning the
Macarena we will be and I'll give you a
little hint of our food our Arkansas
light fare Alma tells me is probably
going to be Arkansas barbecue on buns
cornbread and collard greens so I hope
you all will join us for that evening I
have I would like to welcome all our
guests today and I invite you two to
come to our election party on November
5th
I'd like to make special welcome to
The Ambassadors wife who is with us
today
Marianne white thank you for coming
Marianne she's sitting down here and now
I'd like to turn the program over to
Dorothy Dillon our vice president for
programs who I know needs no
introduction to all of us but it's only
appropriate that I call on Dorothy who
arranged this program today and is also
a longtime friend of ambassador Weitz to
introduce him to us Dorothy please
welcome her with the applause thank you
very much I am very pleased today to
introduce a fellow radical let me
explain we have a group of retired
foreign service officers who have
reserved most of all their careers in
Latin American we meet once a month a
deck or a house to have lunch and
usually with a speaker now these are a
mixture of Democrats and Republicans I
don't know what the actual mix is I
would suspect they're more Democrats
than Republicans but they were fairly
conservative Bunch in the old meaning of
conservative you know the classical
historical meaning change but not too
much and not too fast but not going
backwards well Bob white and Wayne Smith
who most of you know because he has
spoken here at the club many times and
myself we're sort of the three radicals
of the group at least they look upon us
as kind of radicals and I use that in
the original sense of the term liking to
get to the root of problems not in the
way it is generally used ambassador
white has spent most of his career in
Latin America he has served in many
countries he ended up in as ambassador
in Paraguay and then in in El Salvador
prior to that he had served as head of
the Latin American Peace Corps he even
made one tour of duty in
in his early career so he's been other
places than that America but most of the
time there for the last eight years or
so he has been president of the Center
for in dimeric international policy
which is a private independent
think-tank here in Washington and the
particular project that he's engaged in
at the moment is a year-long project
with the world affairs in collaboration
with the world affairs council to study
what will should be the role of the
Central Intelligence Agency in the
post-cold war world you know there's
been a lot of press attention to the CIA
recently various allegations have been
made about their activities and I think
it's a very good time to take a look at
what it has been and where we would like
to see it go so it is with great
pleasure that I introduce ambassador
Robert E White he will talk to us about
his ideas and the center's ideas on the
future of the CIA
Thank You Dorothy for that that kind
introduction
Dorothy Dylan herself played a strong
and constructive role over many years
with the u.s. Information Agency
president chase it's a pleasure to be
with you today if we had to choose one
time in one place the United States
foreign policy went wrong in my opinion
that place would be Guatemala
and that date would be 1954 confronted
with a government unresponsive to US
pressures the CIA overthrew that elected
government and replaced it with a
military dictatorship since that time
the CIA has worked closely with the
Guatemalan army the owner of the worst
human rights record in this hemisphere
recently I traveled to Guatemala and I
met with a member of the Guatemalan
legislature a man with an outstanding
Democratic and centrist record now this
legislature was less impressed and
several members of our delegation
thought he should be with the Clinton
administration's support for democracy
and for Human Rights yes he said
ambassador Marilyn McAfee had carried
out an admirable policy designed to
advance negotiations towards a peace
treaty between the government and the
revolutionary movement yes ambassador
McAfee had consistently supported
democracy and human rights yet he hinted
there were officials in the embassy in
the embassy who contravened and
subverted the policy being carried out
by the Ambassador to illustrate his
point he asked
delegation why is it do you think that
the United States has the most stable
government in the hemisphere I groaned
inwardly for I knew what was coming the
United States is the most stable country
in the hemisphere he said because there
is no American Embassy in Washington for
the last 40 years this story has been
told and retold the length and breadth
of Latin America yet it still has the
power to dismay at least this former
Foreign Service owns American embassies
and consulates around the world exist to
safeguard American interests in a manner
consistent with national honor diplomacy
divorce dramatical standards and
international law betrays the values of
the United States and undercuts the
relationships of confidence with foreign
governments so necessary to the
achievement of our national objectives
unfortunately the cynicism of the
Guatemalan legislature was demonstrated
to be well-founded a few months later
after the delegation returned the
president's intelligence Oversight Board
assigned to investigate the CIA rule in
Guatemala recognized that the CIA had
been working at cross-purposes with the
Ambassador and that CIA officers had
lied to the Congress about their
activities these this investigation and
these reveled in these revelations came
and came about in large part because of
the courage of sister Diana Ortiz and
Jennifer Harbury both of whom had
suffered grievous harm at the hands of
the Guatemalan military
and it was only achieved with the vital
support of congressman bob torricelli
who had the basic integrity to put the
life of jennifer Harbury above the
secrecy designed to protect the CIA from
its own wrongdoing and an aptitude in
August of this year the San Jose Mercury
News published a series by Gary Webb
accusing the CIA of permitting
Nicaraguan drug traffickers in Los
Angeles to finance the Contra war
through the sale of crack cocaine these
charges remain unproved and there is
ample reason to believe that the
newspaper through its graphics and
headlines overstated its case CIA
director John Deutsch has ordered an
internal CIA review of these charges if
the CIA review concentrates solely on
the Los Angeles connection I have little
doubt that the CIA will be found largely
innocent if however the review includes
as it should Contra drug running into
Florida and other cities the results of
the investigation could and should be
dramatically different as Jack Blum
former special counsel to the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee stated in
his brilliant testimony before the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
last week quote there was however plenty
of evidence that policymakers close
their eyes to the criminal behavior of
some of America's allies and supporters
in the Contra war the policymakers
ignored the drug-dealing ignore the drug
dealing they're stealing their human
rights violations policymakers allowed
the Contras to compensate themselves for
helping us by remaining silent in the
face of their impropriety and by quietly
undercutting the law enforcement and
human rights agencies that might have
caused them difficult Blob continued a
careful review of the history of covert
operations in the Caribbean and South
and Central America show a 40-year
connection between crime and covert
operations that has repeatedly blown
back on the United States the same
history will show that operations in the
region were for the most part moral and
political failures other operations in
Asia and Europe have had similar
consequences the worst in the narcotics
area end of quote
Oliver North himself mentions in his
notes those notes at least that escaped
destruction at his hands that he had
advised the Drug Enforcement Agency that
illegal drugs had entered the United
States on contra supply planes how a
nation is organized to conduct its
foreign policy will determine in large
measure the nature of that policy before
the Cold War the management of US
foreign policy was centered in a single
department responsible to the president
the emergency the emergence of several
contending agencies has not only
complicated and hampered the making of
foreign policy but it has led to an
exaggeration of threats from abroad as
each agency competes for power access
and resources
in this competition for the
foreign-policy dollar over diplomacy has
come up the loser and covert activity
the clear winner as Thomas Friedman
wrote in the New York Times this Sunday
budget cuts have forced the State
Department to close over 30 embassies
and consulates and shut down 25% of the
US I a libraries around the world yet
the budgets of the intelligence agencies
sailed through the Congress
largely untouched when the CIA was born
Secretary of State Dean Acheson
expressed the gravest foreboding his
words about the agency warning that once
in being quote neither the president nor
anyone else would be in a position to
know what it was doing or control it of
all the US government institutions that
evolved to fight the Cold War the CIA
came to symbolize that era the CIA
assumed the role of carrying the fight
against the Soviet Union and against
international communism the cult of
secrecy that grew up around the agency
gave it the ability enviable for a
bureaucracy but have odds with our
constitutional system of being able to
justify without public scrutiny the
rationale for its own existence and
activities
covert action has involved our countries
in the overthrow of the elected
government of Guatemala the Bay of Pigs
invasion of Cuba the formation and
training of the death-dealing battalion
316 in Honduras the sponsorship of the
decade-long butchery in El Salvador the
destruction of Nicaragua through the
manufacture of civil war and a long list
of less spectacular disasters and I
might add that perhaps the chief entity
to suffer was our own constitutional
system the one commodity never in short
supply in Central America and the
Caribbean is information yet the CIA
insists it must recruit and maintain on
the payroll gross and consistent
violators of human rights in order to
gather intelligence in my experience
this claim is false and self-serving and
merits the most intense scrutiny by
congressional committees men like
general Manuel Noriega of Panama General
Gustavo Alvarez of endurance colonel
Roberto Alvarez
of Guatemala Anna Manuel constant of
Haiti enjoyed profitable contractual
arrangements with the CIA
not because they were particularly
important sources of information but
because they served as paid agents of
influence who promoted actions or
policies favored by the CIA in that
country this these CIA policies usually
but not always coincided with national
policy
this is not let me assure you of mere
historical interest let us take the case
of Haiti President Clinton made it clear
from the outset of his many of his
administration that it was his policy to
restore president Aristide and
constitutional government to hate yet
there is no disguising the fact that the
CIA undercut this policy the CIA leaked
a psychological profile filled with
damaging misinformation about president
our student CIA director james Woolsey
revealed to a congressional committee
that the CIA had kept on the payroll
several of the coup leaders most vicious
in their crushing of democratic rule and
for reasons never explained the CIA
recruited a manual cost on the leader of
a gang of thugs thugs who spread terror
throughout Haiti by intimidating and
killing leading our Stede supporters the
CIA has made clandestine collection of
intelligence and covert action normal
routine features of u.s. foreign policy
no more certain way to undermine
diplomacy and destroy trust between
nations can be found there is a role
there is indeed a definite role for an
intelligence agency in monitoring
threats of nuclear proliferation in
keeping a careful eye on the development
of weapons systems by potential enemies
of the United States by monitoring
terrorism and perhaps narcotics instead
of concentrating on these real threats
the swollen bureaucracy of the CIA has
imposed huge numbers of its operatives
on US embassies
in countries with open societies in many
overseas posts CIA staff a number
legitimate diplomats I put it to you
that that is a shocking statement the
standard for international policy has
begun its own assessment of national
security requirements this initiative
was born out of disappointment with the
official Commission's the Presidential
Commission and the Commission headed by
Larry Khan best in the House of
Representatives representative Larry
Carr best far from proposing reform
these reports have instead meekly
endorsed the intelligence community's
current operations and budget
representative Kahn vest even said that
his primary job was not oversight of the
CIA but advocate for the CIA this is a
new definition of the role of these
oversight committees the project of the
Center for international policy is
directed by Melvin Goodman a former high
CIA official working with mr. Goodman on
this project our former ambassadors
former CIA officers former members of
the National Security Council as well as
academic experts in national security
and several investigative journalists
the overall objective of this project is
to ascertain if national security can be
protected by increasing democratic
accountability including
declassification
and reducing secrecy by ending covert
operations except in times of genuine
national peril and only against enemies
of the United States by restoring
intelligence to its proper supportive
role in the conduct of Foreign Relations
by entering mutual agreements with other
democratic governments to end espionage
and covert operations in each other's
countries by using our intelligence
capacity in a more creative way to
monitor agreements on international
security by going by seeking to reduce
terrorism economic espionage and
transnational crime working to end these
scourges as I said how a country is
organized to conduct its foreign policy
will determine to a great extent the
nature of that policy if 90 if 90 cents
of every dollar goes in for foreign
policy goes to the military and to this
end to the intelligence community then
you should not be surprised if the
solutions that are presented to the
present are the recommendations that are
presented to the present emphasize
military solutions and intelligence at
in covert actions over the past four
years decades we have over funded spying
and underfunded diplomacy as a result
the United States has too frequently
departed from the path of judicious
application of diplomatic influence
to gain legitimate objectives we have
trampled on sovereignty judicial
equality and territorial integrity
principles that have served for
centuries as the norms of conduct among
independent states in the full awareness
that the world is still a dangerous
place I believe it is time to reassert
these fundamental principles and give
them the preeminence that they deserve
by setting aside covert means at least
until legitimate open diplomacy has been
tried and found wanting
thank you
thank you very much if you have
questions for max or white please write
them on the card provided at your table
and hold them up for the hostess - great
to the front as your first question what
how much how one should be assuming a
Clinton victory which I do
how should what should the how should we
form the CIA but I think it the first
step would be to separate operations
from analysis as most of you are aware
the CIA really divides into two parts
the analytical unit which at least
theoretically brings in all the
information from over at sources from
covert sources from newspapers from from
every source possible and then writes
prepares estimates repairs assessments
of important foreign policy issues to
the present situation reports of you
in our view it is vital to separate this
analytical function from the operational
function from the dirty tricks
department because we know from history
let us take the example of William Casey
as head of the Central Intelligence
Agency it is well known in public that
several important CIA analysts left the
CIA because director Casey rejected
those analyses that did not meet and so
his expectations that did not support
the Reagan policies in Central America
this puts analysis at the servant casts
analysis in a sense as the servant of
the policy and they inevitably are these
pressures even if you have a a CIA
director who understands and
sympathizers with the the need to keep
the two functions separate for example
the former CIA director one former CIA
director in fact the first CIA director
under President Clinton stated publicly
that he had put CIA operatives from one
region together with the CIA analysts
from another reason from there from the
same region there was he put operatives
together with analysts in order to
facilitate communication but you see
this is precisely what should not be
done
what because what happens is that it
gives privileged access to information
that is clandestinely required and in in
my view at least a 90 percent of the
world most of the valuable information
comes from over it sources so I think
that's the basic recommendation that I
would make in order to separate in order
to ensure that the president gets
unbiased analysis and separates it from
operations has any disciplinary or
corrective action been taken against the
CIA officials who so consistently
sabotage Jewish policy in Haiti not to
my knowledge and indeed this is a very
important issue that cries out for
congressional investigation there was no
ambiguity in President Clinton's policy
he stated right from the outset that it
was his policy to restore constitutional
government and to restore president
Aristide to the people of Haiti and yet
in spite of that and in spite and he
succeeded in getting an agreement where
whereby the military of Haiti would
permit president hours deed to return
and yet that the military after signing
faithless li violated its pledged word
now why did they do it
well when the CIA director revealed that
we still had on the payroll key members
of the hanta that overthrew president
Asti it seemed to many observers that
the Haitian generals and colonels
believed that they had a friend and
advocate in Washington and that if they
were still on the payroll that we really
could not be serious about President
Clinton's policy let me tell you that
the militaries of Central America and
the Caribbean have long have long ago
learned to divide the United States
government up into good guys and bad
guys and to those that those elements
that they listen to and to those
elements that they do not listen to and
in particular you do listen to the
people who pay you and that I think is
the explanation for a great deal of our
trouble in this region Bob
how would you structure a reformed CIA
to eliminate its stations third country
operations which enable it to exclude
the Ambassador and/or DCM from all
oversight responsibilities this question
puts a problem succinctly and well in
theory the Ambassador is given is
charged by the president to oversee all
operations in the country except if
there happens to be a military operation
in progress but there are except there
is a blatant and regrettable exception
and that is that the CIA is except from
the
features of ambassadorial responsibility
I think that the key here is a to a
point first to appoint ambassadors who
are truly qualified this does not mean
that they all have to be career people
not by any means some of our most
outstanding ambassadors have been men
like John Kenneth Galbraith or Daniel
Patrick Moynihan but we must have men
and women who have the ability and the
background to discharge their
responsibilities and to and to have the
respect of the country team right now I
have known cases where the Central
Intelligence Agency was blocked from
running an operation in one area of the
world not Latin America because of the
good sense and prudence of a deputy
chief of mission in order to escape his
surveillance and his vetoing they moved
the whole operation to a neighboring
country where there was a more pliable
ambassador we simply have to have a rule
where the the Ambassador knows and has
to approve any operation by the CIA
why do you think the CIA was so far off
the mark in evaluating the state of the
Soviet Union
that they were off the mark there is no
doubt in 1988 then deputy director I
believe Robert Gates testified that the
Soviet Union was stronger than ever and
that we need a in a large increase in
military spending in order to counter
the increasing strength of the Soviet
this is the time when any casual
observer and I went to the Soviet Union
about 12 times during that period and it
was clear to anyone with an eye to see
that the Soviet Union was not a
functioning entity
let me just tell you one anecdote we the
Center for international policy ran a
the first operation first conference on
operation the first conference in in
Afghanistan with former US diplomats and
academics and and with Afghan ease and
with Russians designed to see if there
wasn't a way to cut short the end of the
of the Afghan war when I was with in
1988 I was with in Moscow with this high
Soviet official and we were having a
drink and dinner after a hard day's work
and in came a group of Chinese and he
looked up and he said those Chinese he
said they're so hardworking and clever
they can even make communism work now I
think that you know that that kind of it
was not difficult but I believe that
there has been a reciprocal rewarding
relationship
between Central Intelligence Agency and
and let me put it this way visit the the
CIA needs enemies because if you have
friends there you really don't need all
that many dirty tricks so I believe
there is a an active search underway at
all time to locate and enemies that I'm
not all sure are necessarily enemies
Senator Moynihan says to close down CIA
and leave intelligence to agencies in
the Pentagon do you agree well I hear
the groans from the audience but I have
to tell you that there is something to
Senator Moynihan's recommendation you
have to put up assuming you need
operations at all and I would like to
reiterate our current recommendation was
still in the process of formulation the
covert action should be ended unless
there are unless we are close to to war
unless we are truly confronting an enemy
and a sense of national emergency
prevails throughout our country I think
that covert actions have have inevitably
as Jack Blum said blown back on the
United States for example the huge
amount of money that we have that we
showered that the CIA showered on a
fanatic named goo Lubin Hekmatyar in
Afghanistan a man who led the most
extreme fundamentalist wing and yet he
is also as outlined and Professor Alfred
McCoy's recent book
one of the leading heroin traffickers in
that region and this is an appalling
fact that there is a relationship and
here I recommend dr. McCoy's book the
politics of heroin in Southeast Asia or
actually it's now updated to just recall
the politics of heroin to all of you but
just but you if you're going to have
operations then you have to put them
somewhere and one thing I will say about
the Pentagon is that it has command and
control I do not think that if the
Pentagon had charge of this type of
activity that you would get the kind of
cowboy mentality that we have seen in
too many cases can the Department of
State be reinvigorated and restored to
its former importance
no country can be great without a great
foreign service no country can achieve
its role in the world without a
first-class diplomacy yet the State
Department has been put into the same
category as the Department of Commerce
Department of Interior etc and suffers
the same cuts as all of these other
departments whereas the Pentagon the CIA
live behind the firewall of national
security their budgets are basically
untouchable even when the Penta Kuenn
the CIA other excuse me the intelligence
community was discovered the National
Reconnaissance Office an organization
that many of you may never have heard of
stole four billion dollars and put it in
a kitty still for future use they had
already put up a building in Northern
Virginia that the Congress had never
heard of then a few so Don Quijote
Democrats like Pat Schroeder and Barney
Frank tried to take the four billion
dollars back and put it in the general
Treasury which seemed to me a really
good idea because if you steal that kind
of money and get caught there should be
some penalty no Chairman canvassed and a
group of his supporters actively worked
and one out in restoring this four
billion dollars to one four billion
dollars back into the intelligence
community budget and so I believe
that this it is essential for the State
Department to be looked upon as the key
player in national and foreign policy
and the key actor the frontline in our
national security but I have to say that
up until now I see very little evidence
that the consciousness of the importance
of the State Department has penetrated
very far and we part of our project is
designed to dramatize the lack of
proportionality between the funding
lavished on some agencies and the and
the penury that causes the State
Department to have to close vital
installations overseas the Nicaraguan
election of last week repudiated the
send in these sin Denise tiss what does
this mean for Nicaragua
the first thing to note about that is
that it was a fair election and that the
man who got the most votes is going to
be ushered in as the next president of
the garage WA and at the Sandinistas and
Daniel Ortega recognized that they have
lost the election and will now go into
the posture of the loyal opposition this
is a very important development it was
unfortunate that both men both
candidates represented extreme views the
Nicaraguan people are basically a people
that like to compromise that like the
work things of peacefully and I think
that if we can continue to play as
ambassador John Mostow in Nicaragua has
played a wonderfully important and
positive role in making certain that the
Mayall Nicaraguans understood that the
United States have no had no favorites
in this race and I think as long as we
can maintain that posture of support for
democracy but without getting involved
in the internal affairs of the country
the Nicaraguans will slowly and surely
rebuild their country I will regret that
the United States seems to have
unlimited funds to destroy Central
America but has almost no money at all
to help it rebuild
what is the source of the CIA a tendency
to undercut US policy does it come from
within the bureau within the bureaucracy
or is it the larger intelligence
community as a whole
most of the money that goes to
intelligence does not go to the CIA most
of the money the ghost or intelligence
goes for satellites for bases and
platforms for electronic eavesdropping
now we have to in any sort of
reassessment of foreign policy we should
take a look at how this twenty five
billion dollars or so is spent and
what's the record of these of these
efforts and do they really serve do you
really need to spend that much money on
on gadgetry but I will say this that if
you leave aside the huge amounts of
money I have never known any government
to protest the fact that satellites fly
above their country taking photographs
I've never known a government to object
to the existence of a national security
agency and that has the most
sophisticated listening gear in the
world maybe we may be American citizens
should think about it but I've never
known any foreign government so what we
can say is that as expensive as these
toys are they don't interfere with the
normal conduct of u.s. foreign policy
what we have to worry about is that
while covert action and clandestine
collection of information while that
part of the budget represents only a
small percentage of the overall
intelligence
it is the people who have been involved
in covert action that have given the
ethos to the CIA the the the deputy
directors and directors of the CIA have
mostly been drawn from the ranks of
covert operatives I've been assuming the
top ranks not necessarily the director
so what you have to concern yourself
with here is not just raw raw figures of
dollars spent but that the CIA tends to
see its fortunes tied up with the elites
that rule in developing countries it may
be that the Soviet Union was the enemy
but the CIA played out its
role primarily in the countries of the
third world and when you have on your
payroll leading members of the military
and important politicians then then
elitist government oligarchic government
even dictatorial government becomes a
very comfortable arrangement for the
Central Intelligence Agency when you
have a democracy when you have an hour
Steve say then as a result of elections
the elites lose at least a good part of
their influence in the society and have
to educate and have to exercise what
influence they do have in a more open
responsible way so I think that there is
a natural tendency for the CIA to be
comfortable with oligarchic dictatorial
government certainly that has been the
history
we read in the press that Latin America
is more democratic than ever in history
how do you square this with your
allegations of CIA subversion of
democracy it's true that's here that
indeed it is true that there is now more
democracy in Latin America than ever
before we would have however had
democracy decades before this had it not
been for the propensity of the CIA and
the United States government to distrust
democratic leaders the the United States
record over the years in Latin America
has unfortunately been that of support
for dictation there have been some
honorable exceptions John Kennedy and
his Alliance of Progress they were
failings but by and large the direction
of Kennedy policy was towards democracy
Jimmy Carter who brought in human rights
into the vocabulary of u.s. foreign
policy this was a tremendous achievement
because the Latin Americans pay real
attention they have no alternative to
the policies of the United States and
once president quarter put forth human
rights as an organizing principle of US
foreign policy towards Latin America we
had something around which we could
build real support for democracy and
that gave the great impetus to the
democratic
movement in that America I also want to
recognize the President Bush by many of
his actions particularly his emphasis on
free trade and I applaud free of trade
although I recognize its limitations and
problems I think also did a considerable
contribution to to democracy but it make
no mistake the Latin Americans would
have had democratic governments and we
would have been spared iran-contra and a
host of other less back spectacular
disasters had we not had the CIA what is
the current state of the State
Department's intelligence function the
intelligence the reason and Research
Bureau INR as it's called the State
Department has an excellent reputation
it does first-class work I am not seeing
it recently but that is its reputation I
think that this the point is that the
more open your intelligence analysts are
the more ability they have to
communicate with scholars in
universities the more frequently their
assessments are put to the test
I've seen the light of day and unknown
the more the better your intelligence
analysis becomes the one thing this
Dyke's me as certain to defeat
first-class analysis
is secrecy I recently spoke with a
former member of the National Security
Council who told me that the last place
that they looked for intelligence
analysis with the Central Intelligence
Agency the first place they look was CNN
because and this is an important point
is an important point that CNN c-span
other places other entities like that
actually bring the news and defuse that
important events throughout the entire
policy community think think I asked you
to think how much it costs both in money
and in time to get something that is top
secret no distribution around this
government so that all policymakers are
informed it takes days and perhaps weeks
how long does it take if you have it in
the Washington Post it's a minute and so
secrecy is a highly overrated commodity
as a matter of fact in my view one of
the chief purposes of these various
gradations that try to limit
distribution is to build up a small
group of people at the top who can say
if you knew what I knew you wouldn't
hold those views and that I tell you
nothing more destructive of intelligent
policy analysis could be found
200 tons of fat cocaine to run into this
government by the CIA doing the Contras
and how did weapons of this judgment in
fact I'm gonna aware of the fact that I
was inspect our Center for because of
any have been involved the City
Committee I'm so do you demand that we
have a public hearing on the fact that
our money was used to banging over 200
tons of crack cocaine and weapons into
our community into the United States to
fund the caucus I'm sorry you can't you
don't have to answer that if you don't
want to he's supposed to put it in
writing and I would appreciate any more
questions in writing yeah if you don't
mind I would like to answer it Madam
President as I said I do believe that
the Contras and people connected with
the countries brought in huge amounts of
cocaine into this country I also believe
that people in the Central Intelligence
Agency and in other responsible posts in
government knew about this and looked
the other way I think that open hearings
are an excellent idea
and I worry very much that this internal
CIA investigation will not respond will
will answer very narrow questions and
not treat of the legitimate concerns of
this gentleman and in particular the
black community because as Jack Blum
pointed out in this country we have a
particular definition of the cocaine
problem or the drug problem and that is
that
if you are an addict you only get into
trouble if you violate the law by
stealing money in order to feed your
have if you're a doctor or a lawyer and
have ample resources then you are not a
problem by the definition of our society
and I think that this is something that
does need to be thought about and
addressed and I think that there is a
need for the catharsis to find out
indeed what were our officials doing
during this cocaine the import of by the
Contras and people associated with them
during the thank you very much I think
our time is out there is a paper that
you have in the back that people can
take as they go out we have a few
anybody who wants I have some cards here
anybody who wants to fight have any
other material that I've referred to or
information about our project if you
just leave a card with me or with one of
my associates we would be glad and
pleased to inform you about the ongoing
state of our deliberations thank you
very much